---
author: admin
date: 2007-02-21 14:25:15+00:00
draft: false
title: FoWA Day 2
type: post
url: /2007/02/21/fowa-day-2/
categories:
- Conferences
tags:
- Chris-Wilson
- FoWA
- FOWALondon07
- IE7
- OpenID
- Ryan-Carson
- Simon-Willison
---

Adobe pitch about Flex etc. Not my cup of tea.

Chris Wilson from the IE7 team. Excellent honest presentation on why they lost their way with IE. Mentioned microformats so my ears pricked up. RSS in IE7 - he's very excited by this. I really think it'll push the uptake of using RSS. Chris just went through all the changes in IE7 and is now going through some of the newer MS Web tools including the free ones and the VPC image with IE6 in it so you can test both IE7 and IE6 on the same machine.

The NYTimes guy is talking about the nuts and bolts of the site and managing the content and how they interact withthe rest of the organisation. Sounds like lots of stuff is coming.

Simon Willison giving a brilliant presentation on OpenID. The buzz has gone ballistic on this since I wrote about it recently. Simon is really evangelising it well. It has nearly convinced me that we should support it for the full launch for LouderVoice. I did try the plug-in for Wordpress here recently but it made a mess of the blog and I turned it off. I love the idea of pre-approval for blog commenters using OpenID. He highlights the same general problem I did with LiveJournal which is the inability to associate an OpenID with an existing account.

Lunchtime panel excellent - separate post.
